Dec. 22, 2025Federal  Update:  Trump  Admin  Unveils  GLOBE,  GUARD  Models, Plus  Nine  Additional MFN ArrangementsOverview:   On Dec.  19,  the  Trump  administration  closed  out  a  year  of  international  pharmaceutical  reference  pricing announcements with the publication of CMS’s proposed Global Benchmark for Efficient Drug Pricing (GLOBE) and Guarding U.S. Medicare Against Rising Drug Costs (GUARD) models, as well as the release    of    nine    additional    Most-Favored-Nation    (MFN)    pricing    arrangements    with    major pharmaceutical  manufacturers. The announcements  align  with  the  Trump  administration’s  goal of lowering the prices that American patients pay for prescription drugs to the prices paid in similarly developed countries, as well as May 12 Executive Order on delivering MFN prices to patients. Both the GLOBE and GUARD models, which would test new rebate formulas for certain Part B (GLOBE) and Part D (GUARD) drugs in randomly selected geographic areas, would require mandatory participation from manufacturers.   Beneficiaries,   providers,   and   suppliers   would   not   be   included   as   mandatory   participants  in  these  models.  Each  model  would  utilize  the  existing  Medicare  Inflation  Rebate  programs to  allow  manufacturers  to  reimburse  the  federal  government  for  the  difference in applicable  drugs’  current  net  price  and  the  international  reference  price.  As  proposed  rules,  public  comments  for  each  model  must  be  submitted  via the  Federal  Register  by  Feb.  23,  2026.  The  MFN  pricing announcements   follow  several  previous  deals  on   high-cost   drugs,   in-vitro   fertilization therapies, and GLP-1 products.    GLOBE Model:   Part  B  drugs  and  biologics  eligible  for  the  GLOBE  model must  be  single  source,  be  used  to  treatconditions   under   certain   U.S.   Pharmacopeia   Drug   Classifications   (including:   Antigout   Agents,   Antineoplastics,  Blood  Products  and  Modifiers,  Central  Nervous  System  Agents,  Immunological  Agents, Metabolic Bone Disease Agents, Ophthalmic Agents), have a Part B fee-for-service (FFS) spend in excess of $100 million over a 12-month period, and cannot be excluded. CMS would randomly select the geographic areas for which the model would apply to balance the Medicare beneficiary population and  Medicare expenditures.  It  would  cover  roughly  25%  of  Medicare  beneficiaries  nationwide.  Excluded  drugs  would  include  those  with  a  Medicare  Drug  Price  Negotiation  Program-negotiated Maximum Fair Price (MFP), as well as 340B-eligible drugs. CMS is seeking public comment on whether cell and gene therapies should be excluded. To  calculate  the  rebates,  CMS  would  adjust  the  existing  Part  B  formula  with  an  international  price  benchmark, while maintaining the existing Inflation Reduction Act rebate floor. The rebate would be the greater of the difference between applicable drug’s average sales price (ASP) and a GDP-adjusted international benchmark price, or the difference between the ASP and the inflation-adjusted payment amount  currently  used  to  calculate  Part  B  inflation  rebates.  International  benchmarks  would  be  determined from a set of countries that have a real GDP per capita at least 60 percent of the U.S. real 
GDP per capita based on purchasing power parity (PPP), and an annual real GDP that is at least $400 billion based  on  PPP.  Rebates would  be  paid  directly  to  the  Medicare  Supplementary  Medical  Insurance Trust Fund.CMS estimates that the model would save $11.9 billion in Part B net spending over seven years. While the   model   won’t   directly   affect beneficiaries’   out-of-pocket   costs, CMS believes it   may   have   downstream effects that benefit Part B enrollees. The GLOBE model would run for seven years, with a five-year performance period beginning Oct. 1, 2026, through Sept. 30, 2031. Rebate invoicing and reconciliation would continue until Sept. 30, 2033. Public comments may be submitted via the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking by Feb. 23, 2026.  GUARD Model:   The GUARD model would operate in a similar fashion to GLOBE, applying instead to Part D drugs and the Part D inflationary rebate program. Eligible single-source drugs and biologics include those in the following therapeutic categories: Analgesics; Anticonvulsants; Antidepressants; Antimigraine Agents; Antineoplastics; Antipsychotics; Antivirals; Bipolar Agents; Blood Glucose Regulators; Cardiovascular Agents;  Central  Nervous  System  Agents;  Gastrointestinal  Agents;  Genetic  or  Enzyme  or  Protein Disorder:  Replacement  or  Modifiers  or  Treatment;  Immunological  Agents;  Metabolic  Bone  Disease  Agents;  Ophthalmic  Agents;  and  Respiratory  Tract/Pulmonary  Agents.  Again,  CMS  would  randomly  select  the  geographic  areas  for  which  the  model would  apply  to  balance  the  Medicare  beneficiary  population and Medicare expenditures, covering roughly 25% of Medicare beneficiaries nationwide. Generics and biosimilars, single source drugs and biologics with total gross covered drug costs belowa minimum spend threshold, drugs with a negotiated MFO, and 340B-eligible drugs would be excludedfrom the model.  Manufacturers would be required to pay GUARD model rebates if the Medicare net price is greater than  a  GUARD  model  international benchmark. The international benchmark would be determined from the  greater  price  calculated  by  either  a  default  or  updated  benchmark.  Default international benchmarks would reflect the lowest average price among a set of average prices for each reference country. Pricing data would be gathered from an eligible drug’s “international analog,” i.e. a drug with the  same  active  ingredient,  route  of  administration,  dosage  form,  and  strength.  An  updated  international benchmark would allow manufacturers to submit global net pricing data from referencecountries.  As with GLOBE, international reference countries must have a minimum of 60% of the U.S. PPP GDP and a minimum $400 billion PPP GDP and be a member of the Organization for EconomicCooperation  and  Development.  Rebates owed would  be  reduced  if  the  drug  is  under  a  shortage  at any point in the performance year. CMS estimates that the GUARD model would save the Part D program upwards of $14.1 billion over its seven-year period. While the model won’t directly affect beneficiaries’ OOP costs, CMS believes it may have downstream effects that benefit Part D enrollees. The GUARD model would run for seven years,  with  a  five-year performance  period  beginning  Jan.  1, 2027,  through  Dec.  31,  2031.  Rebate  invoicing and reconciliation would continue until Dec. 31, 2033. Public comments may be submitted via the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking by Feb. 23, 2026.  Additional 12/19 Most-Favored-Nation Arrangements:   
In  addition  to  the  aforementioned  MFN  models  proposed  by  CMS,  President  Trump  announced agreements with nine additional pharmaceutical manufacturers to offer medications at MFN prices. The announcement follows the release of demand letters to 17 major manufacturers directing them to implement MFN prices, and brings the total number of publicly announced agreements to 14. The Dec. 19   announcement reflects agreements with Amgen, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Genentech, Gilead Sciences, GSK, Merck & Co., Novartis, and Sanofi. As with previous agreements, the manufacturers will offer MFN prices to all Medicaid recipients, not offer lower prices to other nations, offer drugs directly to consumers via the TrumpRx platform, and repatriate foreign revenue back into lowering  drug  prices  in  the  U.S.  The  TrumpRx  platform  is  set  to  launch  in  Jan.  2026,  but  details regarding its implementation remain to be seen. Collectively, the nine manufacturers also agreed to invest at  least  $150  billion  into  strengthening  domestic  manufacturing  capabilities.  In  an  effort  to  reduce reliance on foreign products, GSK, Bristol Myers Squibb, and Merck also announced intentions to   contribute   active   pharmaceutical   ingredients   for   key   products   to   the   Strategic   Active   Pharmaceutical Ingredients Reserve (SAPIR). During the announcement, President Trump stated that agreements were reached with the remaining three manufacturers who received demand letters andwill be publicly announced in early 2026. AMCP will continue to monitor these announcements. 