CMS Announces New Drug Payment Model to Strengthen Medicaid and Better Serve Vulnerable Americans

The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is tackling high drug prices and protecting the American taxpayers through a landmark Innovation Center initiative designed to lower prescription drug spending in Medicaid, improve health outcomes by increasing access to critical medications, and strengthen the Medicaid program overall. State Medicaid programs that choose to participate in the GENErating cost Reductions fOr U.S. Medicaid (GENEROUS) Model will be able to purchase drugs included in the pilot at prices aligned with those paid in select other countries, allowing Americans to benefit from fairer, more competitive pricing. 

“Thanks to President Trump’s leadership and Dr. Oz’s bold direction at CMS, we’re expanding access to affordable medicines for millions of Americans,” said Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. “By bringing most-favored-nation pricing to Medicaid, we’re driving down drug costs and protecting the future of care for our most vulnerable citizens.”

Total gross Medicaid spending on prescription drugs exceeded $100 billion in 2024, a $10 billion increase from 2022. After collecting manufacturer rebates, net Medicaid drug spending was still $60 billion, underscoring the urgency for reform. Launching in 2026, the model allows CMS to negotiate with participating manufacturers for lower prices, while states adopting the model will implement uniform, transparent coverage criteria. These consistent standards will give patients and providers predictable access across participating states.

“Under the leadership of President Trump and Secretary Kennedy, CMS is making a historic commitment to driving down the cost of drug prices and ensuring Americans have access to life-saving medications,” said CMS Administrator Dr. Mehmet Oz. “The GENEROUS Model will help ensure state Medicaid programs are paying a fair and reasonable price for prescription drugs—furthering our efforts to preserve funds for our most vulnerable.”

“Drug prices in the U.S. remain far too high,” said CMS Innovation Center Director Abe Sutton. “GENEROUS aims to ensure that Medicaid pricing will be on par with those in other developed nations. My hope is that all eligible Medicaid programs choose to participate in the pilot to help ensure that their Medicaid dollars can go further to support those in need.”

This announcement follows successful agreements between the White House and pharmaceutical companies to lower drug prices for Americans to prices that other countries pay. 

In announcing the pilot, CMS is releasing a Request for Applications (RFA) for drug manufacturers interested in participating in the GENEROUS Model. The agency will also seek letters of intent from state Medicaid agencies interested in participating. States that express interest will later have the opportunity to formally apply and potentially opt in to the terms and prices CMS negotiates with participating drug manufacturers whose applications are accepted. 



CMS Announces Selection of Drugs for Third Cycle of Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program, Including First-Ever Part B Drugs
Administration
Drug Prices
Share

CMS Announces Selection of Drugs for Third Cycle of Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program, Including First-Ever Part B Drugs

Negotiations Will Occur in 2026 With Negotiated Prices Effective in 2028

The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) announced the selection of 15 high-cost prescription drugs covered under Medicare Part D and, for the first time, drugs payable under Medicare Part B for the third cycle of the Medicare Drug Price Negotiation Program. CMS also selected one previously negotiated drug for the program’s first renegotiations. Negotiations with participating drug companies will occur in 2026 and any negotiated and renegotiated prices will become effective January 1, 2028. 

Today’s announcement builds on the Trump Administration’s efforts to reduce prescription drug costs. In the second cycle of negotiations, Medicare reached agreement with participating manufacturers on all 15 selected drugs. Those prices will take effect January 1, 2027. If those new prices had been in effect in 2024, they would have saved an estimated $8.5 billion in net covered prescription drug costs (inclusive of Coverage Gap Discount Program Spending), which would have amounted to approximately 36% lower net spending in aggregate.   

“For too long, seniors and taxpayers have paid the price for skyrocketing prescription drug costs,” said CMS Administrator Dr. Mehmet Oz. “Under President Trump’s leadership, CMS is taking strong action to target the most expensive drugs in Medicare, negotiate fair prices, and make sure the system works for patients—not special interests. This approach delivers real savings while strengthening accountability across the program.”

Between November 2024 and October 2025, approximately 1.8 million people with Medicare Part D or Medicare Part B coverage used the 15 drugs selected for initial negotiation to treat a variety of conditions, including cancer, psoriatic arthritis, and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. These drugs accounted for approximately $27 billion in total prescription drug spending under Medicare Part B and Part D, representing about 6 percent of total Part B and Part D spending.

CMS is also releasing a list of 50 top negotiation-eligible drugs based on combined expenditures under Medicare Parts B and D. The drugs selected for the third cycle represent the top 15 highest-spending drugs on this list. 

“The publication of the list of top 50 negotiation-eligible drugs evidences CMS’ commitment to transparency,” said CMS Deputy Administrator and Director of Medicare Chris Klomp. “By applying clear eligibility criteria and practical negotiation policies, we are ensuring the program responds to market changes while delivering fairness and value for the American people.”

The selected drug list for the third cycle of negotiations is: 

Anoro Ellipta
Biktarvy
Botox; Botox Cosmetic
Cimzia
Cosentyx
Entyvio
Erleada
Kisqali
Lenvima
Orencia
Rexulti
Trulicity
Verzenio
Xeljanz; Xeljanz XR
Xolair
The selected drug for renegotiation is: 

Tradjenta
All drugs were selected in accordance with the final guidance for the third cycle of negotiations, which incorporated refinements based on public feedback to increase the transparency of the Negotiation Program. 

Drug companies with a selected drug for the third cycle of negotiations will have until February 28, 2026, to decide if they will participate in negotiations. In negotiations, CMS will consider the selected drug’s clinical benefit, evidence about alternative treatments, the extent to which it addresses unmet medical needs, and its impact on specific populations, including people who rely on Medicare. CMS also considers other information, such as costs associated with research and development as well as current costs of production and distribution for selected drugs.  